Within the Norton Critical edition of Shakespeare’s Macbeth, Kenneth Muir, in his article entitled "Image and Symbol in Macbeth," discusses the causes of Macbeth’s downfall. Notably, Muir argues that the imagery of sickness and diseases pervade throughout the play, specifically in reference to Macbeth's tyrannical rule of the throne of Scotland. He also argues that the contrast of light and darkness, especially in regard to the powers of each fighting against the other, drives much of the play's storyline. Muir examines three overarching sets of actions: political meetings with violent implications, hallucinations, and naked ambition as contributing factors in his arguments detailing illness and contrasting conflict. Given evidence within the text of the play, Muir’s position regarding the symbol of disease and the conflict between light and darkness have validity; however, his supposition that light and darkness directly fight each other remains opposed by the idea of a more nuanced power struggle between the forces of God and Satan. Furthermore, his idea of sickness and diseases can be identified in other events and characters that Muir fails to recognize, such as Lady Macbeth.
Muir opens his argument by asserting that Macbeth often juxtaposes the contrasting clashes of good and evil, angel and devil, heaven and hell, and truth and lies, all of which emanate from the central and core concept of the battle between the forces of light and darkness (259). He would utilize the moment when Macduff and Malcolm assemble an army of the righteous to expel Macbeth, the representative of the forces of evil, and take revenge for the former King Duncan to prove his thesis. During their discussion, Macduff exclaims, “Devilish Macbeth / By many of these trains hath sought to win me / Into his power, and modest wisdom plucks me … But God above… put myself to thy direction” (Shakespeare 4.3.136-41). In this passage, Muir claims that Macbeth, a representation of the Devil on earth, tries to corrupt Macduff into joining his ranks; however, God, the ultimate source of virtue, fights against Satan and puts Macduff on the right path into Malcolm’s arms. Such an event ties into the parallels and conflicts that Muir expounds upon, such as the battles between good and evil, as it provides a specific example of God trying to undermine the forces of Satan by raising his chosen army of the righteous to war against Satan's kingdom.
Muir continues to stipulate that Macbeth contains the contrast between sickness and medicine, which notably appears in the last acts of the play, where Macbeth represents the former as a disease in his tyrannical rule over Scotland, which could only be cured through violence and cleansing (257). In this case, Muir would examine the moment when Macbeth starts to hallucinate during the banquet with Ross and many other lords; Lady Macbeth excuses his behavior, exclaiming, “[Macbeth has a] most admired disorder” (Shakespeare 3.4.134), and later mentions, "…[it] grows worse and worse” (Shakespeare 3.4.144). Muir would point to Lady Macbeth's rationalizations to demonstrate his thesis, as this event exhibits the illness clouding Macbeth's psyche, condemning him and the rest of his kingdom to suffer for his sins. The aforementioned connection to disease corroborates Muir's explication of the role of disease in the play as it proves the canonical idea that disease festers through Macbeth's Scotland and marks the end of Macbeth's rule. Such examples form the components necessary for Muir to construct his overall thesis that Macbeth utilizes many different contrasts and juxtapositions, such as the ideas of good and evil and sickness and cure, to emphasize the struggle for power between Macbeth and the English army of liberation.
	Muir’s position has validity, as many of the ideas he presents predicate historical, religious, and literary logic from the analysis of the play. However, many of his ideas, such as his view regarding the explicit opposition between the forces of light and darkness and the widespread symbol of disease applying to Macbeth specifically, are not predicated in logic and reasoning from the play, as the former could be more appropriately explained with a more complex and nuanced power struggle, and the latter could be applied to multiple characters, as evidenced by the play. An examination of additional evidence from the play supports Muir’s position. In Muir's argument that "[the] opposition between the good and evil supernatural is paralleled by similar contrasts between angel and devil, heaven and hell, truth and falsehood - and the opposites are frequently juxtaposed" (259), he would point to the fact that when Duncan expresses that he will reward those who are deserving due to their virtuous deeds and benevolence, Macbeth, unheard by others, utters, “Stars, hide your fears; / Let not light see my black and deep desires” (Shakespeare 1.4.57-58). At the point of Macbeth's whisper, his soul has been completely taken over by darkness, unable for the light from the brilliant stars to penetrate it, validating Muir's thesis. Other events, such as Lady Macbeth's summoning Satan onto earth and the imagery of the witches, stand as explicit portrayals of the devil versus angel conflict and only bolster his overall argument. However, while the idea of a power struggle and direct conflict might be intertwined, the latter fails to express the complexity of the former and does not recognize the severity of darkness enveloping Scotland during Macbeth's reign. For example, after Macbeth's line, the Devil has wholly taken over Macbeth's soul, causing a dearth of good to fight the evil that corrupts his inner desires. Only when Malcolm and Macduff create their army does God liberate Scotland; no direct conflict exists between God and Satan. An apt analogy is to compare the forces of light and darkness as two droplets of food coloring dispersing throughout a cup of water; each directly imposes its influence by dyeing the water droplets around it and blocking the other color. However, each color's molecules never directly attack one another. Similarly, Satan and God vie for influence in Scotland, corrupting and liberating different groups and humans in order to further their supernatural agenda. Before Macbeth's death on the battlefield, Scotland remains in Satan's hands, far away from the colors of God.
Muir continues to explicate, “Another important group of images is concerned with sickness and medicine, and … [they all appear] after Macbeth has ascended the throne” (257). A crucial moment to verify Muir's thesis occurs when the doctor tries to cure Lady Macbeth of her delusions and seemingly incurable mental condition. Macbeth pleads with the doctor, asking him “[to] Cleanse the stuff’d bosom of that perilous stuff / Which weighs upon the heart” (Shakespeare 5.3.51-55). Muir uses this passage to reveal how the mental distress of Lady Macbeth represents the disease that Macbeth wreaks upon the entirety of Scotland with his despotic regime, where the infection spreads so far as to start imploding in on itself. However, this passage further demonstrates how disease specifically festers not only in Macbeth but also in other characters in the play. Lady Macbeth's illness relates to her spiritual trauma due to her summoning Satan himself onto the earth, which condemned her soul to become the vassal of Beelzebub. Illness plays a crucial part in the play, not only in the character of Macbeth but also in other characters, such as Lady Macbeth. Overall, Muir’s position has validity since much of his argument predicates logical reasoning and builds upon evident knowledge throughout the play. However, his argument excludes many of the characters and events that it could apply to, specifically how the imagery of disease and illness does not necessarily only apply to Macbeth and does not acknowledge the nuances that Macbeth tries to emphasize. Furthermore, his argument does not encapsulate the power struggle between God and Satan in Macbeth. Instead, Muir presents such a conflict as an illogical direct opposition.
	Muir asserts that Macbeth features a power dynamic between the forces of good and evil, as established through Macbeth, and uses the concept of disease to explicate Macbeth's abominable kingdom further. One important part authenticating Muir's argument comes when Macduff discourses with Malcolm about raising an army and, in the process, refers to Macbeth as an avatar of the Devil. Another event validating Muir's stance occurs when Lady Macbeth tries to excuse Macbeth's insane behavior by claiming Macbeth feels tired. However, a disease of madness infiltrates Macbeth's mind, forcing him to confront his guilt. However, the nuances that Muir's argument ignores are explicated when Macbeth clouds out the light from the stars, and by extension God, from entering his heart so that the wicked can eradicate the virtue and let him become an embodiment of Satan, as well as when his wife falls under a similar mental disease that he was afflicted by, a mental disease that even the doctor could not cure. Muir's stance regarding the symbolism of disease and the conflict between light and darkness is valid; however, his assumption that light and darkness fight each other throughout the play starkly contrasts the idea of ​​a power struggle between God and Satan. Additionally, his idea of ​​illness poisoning Macbeth's mind and representing Scotland's demise can be extended to other characters and events.